Changing the Overflow Buffer
Let’s try to understand
our misalignment issue.
Looking at where the first part
of our large
padding buffer of “A”
characters is created,
we notice that it starts
with a call to malloc
with the size 780.
This number should sound familiar.
From our research during the
Windows Buffer Overflow module,
we determined that 780 is
the offset in bytes
required to overwrite the
return address on the stack
and take control of the EIP register.
The malloc function only allocates a block
of memory based on the requested size.
This buffer needs to be
properly initialized,
which is done using the memset function
right after the call to malloc:
Using memset will fill out the memory
allocation with a particular character,
which in our case is 0x41,
the hex representation of
the “A” character in ASCII.
The next line of code in
the exploit is interesting.
There’s a call to memset,
which sets the last byte in the
allocation to a NULL byte.
This may seem confusing at first,
however, continuing to read the code,
we arrive at the lines where
the final buffer is created.
The code starts by allocating
a memory block
for the buffer character array
using malloc
and filling the array with NULL bytes.
Next, the code fills the
buffer character array
by copying the content
of the other variables
through various string manipulation
functions such as strcpy
and strcat
Having the final buffer
constructed as a string
is a very important piece of information.
The C programming language makes
use of null-terminated strings,
meaning that functions
such as strcpy and strcat
determine the end and the size of a string
by searching for the first occurrence of a NULL byte
in the target character array.
Since the allocation size of our
initial padding buffer is 780,
by setting the last byte to 0x00,
we end up with a string
of “A” ASCII characters
that is 779 bytes in length.
This explains the misaligned
overwrite of the EIP register.
We can quickly fix this by increasing
the requested memory size
defined by the initial_buffer_size
variable by 1.
As a final test,
we will again compile the code
Our netcat listener is still waiting
so we will proceed to run the exploit:
And finally switch to our netcat listener:
Excellent!
We have a shell.
In addition,
this exploit no longer requires access
to a Windows-based
attack platform in the field
as we can run it from Kali Linux.